in your health key tonight cutting-edge
cancer treatment right here to Indiana
Fox 59s either pilgrim is here with more
on how local doctors are using robots to
fight cancer this really sounds like
something out of a movie it's crazy
stuff think Honey I Shrunk the Kids
meets the video game world and the whole
thing it's right in your mouth these
doctors are taking a diagnosis that used
to mean possible lifelong issues with
eating drinking and talking and now
they're giving people hope the lump in
Gary Collins throat wasn't just him
worrying what I was told I had was a
tumor on the back of my tongue and it
was here way way in the back where you
swallow the standard procedure to remove
that tumor is pretty invasive we would
have to actually split the lip and the
jaw open come along the side of the
tongue and open the face up kind of like
a book so that we could get to the tumor
in the back of the tongue all I want the
tumor gone last December the FDA
approved a new device to treat cancer in
the back of the throat and tongue part
of the da Vinci robotic system the
center for ear nose throat an allergy
right here in Indy was one of the first
private practices to be trained to use
the robot we removed the tumor with the
robot and be able to spare the patient
some of the radiation therapy and even
chemotherapy that they would normally
get almost as if you could miniaturize
yourself and crawl down the patient's
throat the robot goes in through the
throat reaches the tough to get to back
of the throat and removes the tumor no
cuts and minimal recovery the doctor
does it all from a controller just like
a video game we are treating a lot of
the throat cancers that we never would
have operated on before I was only in
the hospital for four days because of it
and while many patients before would
have struggled post-surgery with talking
and eating gary is celebrating being
cancer-free today with all his favorite
foods
I've been eating hamburgers and steaks
and all the old stuff now this Kanak
cancer has been getting a lot of
attention recently because Michael
Douglas was diagnosed with this type of
cancer and the two doctors in our story
actually helping others to train across
the country only a few dozen places are
offering this right now they also say
they are now using this robot to treat
more widespread
like sweet sleep apnea for more
information about the DaVinci robotic
system log on to our website fox59
dot-com all right thanks for that Eva if
you're looking for a bargain when it
comes to higher education you look well
look towards Bloomington iu officials
say the school is a bargain for in-state
families trying to send their kids to
college the information is based on the
average net price that's the average
amount an in-state student pays for
tuition room board and living expenses
after financial aid IU has the lowest
average net price in the big ten it was
a little more than ten thousand dollars
for the 2008-2009 school year well
summer is almost over we are starting to
see some cooler temperatures here and
there kind of nicer a little bit a
little bit of that cooler weather what
we really need though right now is a
little bit of rain at least in some
measured doses and Brian there were a
few raindrops yeah afternoon I'm glad
you got excited about it because I sure
didn't it was here and gone and it was
done just a little bit of a tease and we
do have some rain in the forecast you've
heard us pretty much forecasting